.TH virtualjaguar 1 2018-09-19 Virtualjaguar Rx
.SH NAME
virtualjaguar \- An Atari Jaguar emulator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B virtualjaguar
.RI [options]
.RI [rom image file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Virtualjaguar is an emulator for the Atari Jaguar videogame system.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B [rom image file]
Name of file to load;
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-alpine
Run in Alpine emulation mode
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-bios
Boot using Jaguar BIOS
.TP
.B \-\-no\-bios
Do not use Jaguar BIOS
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debugger
Run in Debugger emulation mode
.TP
.B , \-\-dram-max
Set the main ram to 8MB
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-gpu
Enable GPU emulation
.TP
.B \-\-no\-gpu
Disable GPU emulation
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-log
Create and use log file
.TP
.B \-\-no\-log
Do not use log file
.TP
.B \-h, \-?, \-\-help
Show command line help

.SH SETTINGS
.TP
.B \-\-es\-all
Erase all settings,
.B \-\-es\-ui
Erase UI settings only,
.B \-\-es\-alpine
Erase alpine mode settings only,
.B \-\-es\-debugger
Erase debugger mode settings only

.SH SOUND
DSP emulation is needed for audio output;
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dsp
Enable DSP emulation
.TP
.B \-\-no\-dsp
Disable DSP emulation

.SH VIDEO
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-fullscreen
Start in full screen mode
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pal
PAL mode
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-ntsc
NTSC mode
.TP
.B \-B, \-\-blur
Enable GL bilinear filter
.TP
.B \-\-no\-blur
Disable GL bilinear filter
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-please\-dont\-kill\-my\-computer
Do not show emulation of tv static. This can be slow on low end CPUs.

.SH SHORTCUTS
.TP
The default key bindings are:
.TP
.B Ctrl-Q
Quit virtualjaguar,
.TP
.B Ctrl-I
Load a new program,
.TP
.B Ctrl+C
Configure tab,
.TP
.B Ctrl+S
Emulator status,
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift+F5
Restart program,
.TP
.B F11
Step into code,
.TP
.B F10
Step over code,
.TP
.B Esc
Pause emulation,
.TP
.B F7
Advance the emulation by a single frame,
.TP
.B F9
Toggle full screen mode,
.TP
.B F8
Screenshot

.SH CONTROLS
.TP
The default key bindings for controller 1 are:
(Key bindings can be changed in the configuration dialog.)
.TP
.B S
Up,
.TP
.B X
Down,
.TP
.B A
Left,
.TP
.B D
Right,
.TP
.B P
Pause,
.TP
.B O
Option,
.TP
.B J
Button C,
.TP
.B K
Button B,
.TP
.B L
Button A,
.TP
.B 1 through 0
Buttons 1 through 0 on the keypad
.TP
.B =
Keypad *
.TP
.B -
Keypad #

.SH FILES
.PP
.B virtualjaguar.log
Virtualjaguar log file. Only written if the log option (\-l or
\-\-log) is given. If the file cannot be opened, the log it sent to
standard output instead. The log file is overwritten on startup. Note
that the file is written to the current directory.
.PP
.B ${XDG_DATA_HOME}/virtualjaguar/screenshots/ (typically ~/.local/share/data/virtualjaguar/screenshots/)
Screenshots will be save in this directory.
.PP
.B ${XDG_DATA_HOME}/virtualjaguar/eeproms/ (typically ~/.local/share/data/virtualjaguar/eeproms/)
Some Atari Jaguar cartridges feature a small writable EEPROM, used for
saving game state and score lists. If this directory exists,
virtualjaguar will emulate the EEPROM by saving the state in file in
this directory.
.PP
.B ${XDG_DATA_HOME}/virtualjaguar/software/ (typically ~/.local/share/data/virtualjaguar/software/)
The virtualjaguar GUI for loading software scans this directory, and
shows the loadable files, along with information about the program,
and a label image if one is included in a zip archive of the software.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Teemu Hukkanen <tjhukkan@iki.fi>.
Additional information written by Jean-Paul Mari <djipi.mari@gmail.com>.
